>> Steve Kinney: So in the event that your
epic test suite doesn't totally work,
or doesn't catch something,
we want to know where.
On one hand, Electron's great, because
you're shipping a version of Chrome, and
a version of Node, which is better
than all the browsers out there and
all the intricacies.
On the other hand this is a desktop
application that you are distributing.
It's not just like deploy a new version
of your client-side code and wait for
the cdn cache to run out.
It is very much this is an application,
like let's hope it
works on whatever operating system
with whatever other things installed.
So you might wanna collect crash reports.
Collecting crash reports in
Electron is deceptively easy.
There is a built-in mechanism for
doing that, right?
How you collect those is gonna be
very specific to where you work.
We're gonna make a very simple express
server that can collect the crash reports.
But for
wherever you work it might go into,
you could be using some tracking software
for this stuff, so on and so forth.
I'm not gonna make any assumptions about
what you use and what you choose to use.
I'm going to make a very simple server to
collect the crash reports that just writes
them to the file system or
console logs them, right?
Cuz we do need a server
that can go ahead and
receive them in the event
that it does happen, right?
So we'll spin that up.
Let's take a look at the code real quick.
I'll spell code correctly.
>> Steve Kinney: So this is my server,
it looks more complicated than it is,
>> Steve Kinney: This
is basically an express server that
can take multi-part requests and
it's going to write them
to the file system.
So I've got one path for
where I'm gonna store crashes.
I've got another path where I'm
gonna store uncaught exceptions.
And basically it's gonna use this mini
dump file which is kind of a pain to read.
So basically you need to have a server
that conforms to what the built-in
crash reporter is going to send.
So here I have,
it's gonna send a post request.
I'm gonna let it send to this.
Or it's gonna send to this crashreports.
And when that happens,
I'm gonna grab the request.body.
I'm gonna grab the filename that was
sent along with it in that mini-dump.
And I'm going to create a new JSON file.
And I'm gonna write to it with
the crash report itself, right?
And so as long as you have a server that
can accept POST requests with attachments
at a /crashreports end point you're
ready for crash reports in Electron.
I also have a fun one here for
uncaught exceptions.
This is not built into electron.
This is one we're gonna
do just to find some.
So let's talk about the difference between
a crash and an uncaught exception.
A crash is like it literally melted down,
right?
it completely, it crashed in a big way.
Uncaught exception is like a JavaScript
error was thrown and you didn't catch it.
Different, right?
The built-in crash reporter is only
going to send you complete meltdowns.
It is not going to send you the,
two string is not defined right?
And so
we've kinda built this to take both.
This is gonna be our own bespoke thing,
and
the crash report Is
going to be very simple.
So let me go ahead and start this up.
And so
crash report server running on Port 3000.
And we'll go ahead,
let me just check out master on this.
>> Steve Kinney: As you can see there is
a crash reporting branch if you wanna.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool and so
here we've got a main process.
This is a version of Fire Sale
that we can take a look at,
and what we are going to do is
we are making a file called
>> Steve Kinney: Crash-reporter.js.
It doesn't matter what you call it.
We will require, no,
we don't need to do it just yet.
So we've got the crash reporter, we want
to set up where we want to send these to.
So I'll just store that in a variable.
Now, ideally, you should have
some server on the internet.
>> Steve Kinney: But we're not going to.
We're just going to run locally.
Cuz crash reporter running on just local
hosts are not going to collect too many
crash reports.
But this will be one so
we can kind of see it in action and
we'll create a configuration.
Cool, and so this is basically some of
the information that we want to include in
the crash report.
So let's say product name
>> Steve Kinney: Is Fire Sale,
the company name.
Let's blame other people for our errors.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and
where to actually submit it to.
So you saw we made that crash
reports endpoint before.
This can really be anything you want,
but I'll say host.
>> Steve Kinney: Put the trailing slash,
let's just do trailing slash here.
>> Steve Kinney: /crashreports and
then we'll
do uploadToServer: true, cool.
And then really all we
need to do after that is
crashReporter.start with
that (configuration).
>> Steve Kinney: Now this file, all we'll
simply do is require it in main.js cause
this will run the file and
start up the crash reporter.
So we can go back in here and we say.
>> Steve Kinney: Require
>> Steve Kinney: You might decide
to say like okay only if you're running
in production or something like that.
But we're not so we're just
going to run it right like this.
And so let's go ahead and
I will start up this application.
The server is still running.
And the big question is,
how do you make your app crash?
Right, cuz that's kind of important for
testing out a crash reporter.
So we can say process.crash.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
cuz it took the entire app down.
And hopefully,
let's go to the other one, no.
>> Steve Kinney: Let me play with this one
second to figure out why its not working,
and then we will, there it is.
All right, let's make believe
that first part didn't happen.
Mark loves it when I do that.
That's his favorite.
[LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Okay,
so we had one small issue which is
originally I got very secure and
typed https instead of http.
The problem with the crash reports is
that when it fails your app has crashed.
So there's not really a great console
log that you can throw in there.
So I took off the https just for
http in this case,
cuz it's just running on localhost.
And we fire up the application now.
>> Steve Kinney: We can go ahead and
open up those developer tools.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll crash the process.
>> Steve Kinney: Oops, it's probably
important to have that server running.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll crash
it one more time for our fun.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, you can see
that it received a crash report and
it just wrote that one over
into the crashes folder.
You can see that I have a JSON file
telling me about the crash report.
And then I also have this mini dump file,
which is big and gnarly as well.
You need custom software to open it.
The crash reports in
my experience even for
the applications I've shipped, is I don't
get necessarily a ton of crash reports.
What I get It's stuff
like uncaught exceptions.
And I wanna know about those more.
If this application is truly crashing and
burning on a particular operating system,
that's interesting to know.
But generally speaking the level
of bugs that I'm causing
are more like the level of
bugs while I was live coding.
I misspelled a variable or
something along those lines.
There are the ones that didn't generate
any errors, those are the worst kind.
But for the ones that do, it'd be cool
if this error is completely uncaught.
I'd like to know about it.